Plt 684 adr interface changes to the transaction constraint library for working with reference scripts (#663)
input-output-hk/plutus-apps: doc/adr/0009-support-reference-scripts-in-constraint-library.rst

.. _support_reference_scripts_in_constraint_library:

ADR 9: Support reference scripts in constraint library
======================================================

Date: 2022-08-15

Author(s)
---------

koslambrou <konstantinos.lambrou@iohk.io>

Status
------

Proposed

Context
-------

In Babbage era (available after the Vasil HF), the Cardano blockchain will support "reference scripts" by changing the ``TxOut`` data type.
Reference scripts are used to attach arbitrary scripts to transaction outputs and are used to satisfy script requirements during validation, rather than requiring the spending transaction to do so.
Thus, we need to adapt our transaction constraint data type (``TxConstraints``) to support this new feature.

Decision
--------

* We will add ``Maybe ScriptHash`` as a new data constructor parameter for the constraints ``MustPayToPubKeyAddress``, ``MustPayToOtherScript``, ``ScriptOutputConstraint`` in ``TxConstraints``.

>   In the offchain implementation of those constraints, if a reference script hash is provided, we will need to find actual script in the lookups table so that we can include it in the transaction output.

Reviewer: Suggest adding "the": 

... we will need to find the actual script ...

Author: ```suggestion
  In the off-chain implementation of those constraints, if a reference script hash is provided, we will need to find the actual script in the lookups table so that we can include it in the transaction output.
```
